#sidebar TableofContents
<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />
= Introduction =

All the tests was made with Visual Studio express 2010 and mingw32++ (and optionnaly Code::Blocks).


= Compiling ihook with Visual Studio =

Some steps is required in order to compile ihook project with Visual Studio. First of all the latest sources must be downloaded. Once done, open Visual Studio and create a new project as _Win32 Project_, click _next_, select _Static library_ and unselect _Precompiled header_.

Next add the following files to the project:
 * hookit.c
 * hookit.h
 * BeaEngine.c (from ...\dep\beaengine\beaengineSources\BeaEngine.c)

To finish, _BeaEngine_ header must be added:
 * Go to project properties -> _Configuration Properties_ -> _C/C++_ -> _General_
 * Select _Additional Include Directories_ -> _edit_ and add the following directory:
    * _...\dep\beaengine\include_

Now, for the last step some directive for the preprocessor must be added:
 * Go to project properties -> _Configuration Properties_ -> _C/C++_ -> _Preprocessor_
 * Select _Preprocessor Definitions_ -> _edit_ and add the following constant (one per line):
    * _IHOOK_CALL_STDCALL_
    * _IHOOK_ENGINE_LIB_
    * _BEA_ENGINE_STATIC_

And voilà ! The project is ready to compile but you will get a lot of warning due to the use of _strcpy_ function. Don't worry :)

To compile ihook as a shared library (DLL file), just create a _Win32 Project_ and select _DLL_, _next_ and select _Empty Project_.

Next, the previous last step need to be modified. Only the following constant is required:
    * _IHOOK_ENGINE_DLL_
    * _BEA_ENGINE_STATIC_



= Compiling ihook with MINGW =

Just use the Makefile in _src_ directory.


= Using ihook static library =

== Example ==

In this example two hook type is used :
 # Hook on a Windows API function : _httpOpenRequestA_ from _wininet.dll_ 
 # Hook on a function code : function inside the DLL

=== `main.cpp` ===
{{{
#include <stdio.h>
#include <windows.h>
#include <wininet.h>


#define IHOOK_CALL_STDCALL
#include "hookit.h"




#if defined(_MSC_VER)
 #pragma comment(lib, "wininet.lib")
 #pragma comment(lib, "libihook_vs.lib")
#endif /* _MSC_VER */




typedef HINTERNET (WINAPI *h_OpenReq) (HINTERNET, LPCTSTR, LPCTSTR, LPCTSTR, LPCTSTR, LPCTSTR, DWORD, DWORD_PTR);
typedef int (*h_not) (const char*);


static void writeToLog(const char *msg)
{
    HANDLE hFile;
    DWORD dwBytesWritten = 0;


    hFile = CreateFile(TEXT("C:\\test_log.txt"),
                       FILE_APPEND_DATA,
                       FILE_SHARE_READ,
                       NULL,
                       OPEN_ALWAYS,
                       FILE_ATTRIBUTE_NORMAL,
                       NULL);


    if (hFile == INVALID_HANDLE_VALUE)
        MessageBoxA(NULL, "CreateFile", "ERROR", MB_OK);
    else {
        WriteFile(hFile, msg, strlen(msg), &dwBytesWritten, NULL);
        WriteFile(hFile, "\n", 1, &dwBytesWritten, NULL);
        CloseHandle(hFile);
    }
}


HINTERNET WINAPI hook_OpenRequest(HINTERNET hConnect,
                                  LPCTSTR verb,
                                  LPCTSTR objectName,
                                  LPCTSTR version,
                                  LPCTSTR referer,
                                  LPCTSTR acceptTypes,
                                  DWORD dwFlags,
                                  DWORD_PTR dwContext)
{
    h_OpenReq   fct;
    DWORD       addr;




    writeToLog((const char*) objectName);


    addr = getReturnAddressByName((char*)"HttpOpenRequestA", (char*)"wininet.dll");
    fct  = (h_OpenReq) addr;


    return (fct(hConnect, verb, objectName, version, referer, acceptTypes, dwFlags, dwContext));
}


static int  nothing(const char *msg)
{
    MessageBoxA(NULL, msg, "I'm in nothing function", MB_OK);
    return (0);
}


static int  hook_nothing(const char *msg)
{
    DWORD addr;
    h_not fct;


    MessageBoxA(NULL, msg, "HOOKED", MB_OK);


    addr = getReturnAddressByAddr((DWORD) &nothing);
    fct  = (h_not) addr;


    return (fct(msg));
}



extern "C" __declspec(dllexport) BOOL APIENTRY DllMain(HINSTANCE hinstDLL, DWORD fdwReason, LPVOID lpvReserved)
{
    DWORD   id = 0;
    extern const char __ihook_version__[];


    switch (fdwReason)
    {
        case DLL_PROCESS_ATTACH:
            writeToLog(__ihook_version__);
            id = hookitByAddress((DWORD) &nothing, (DWORD) &hook_nothing); // or hookitByAddress(*(DWORD) &nothing + 5*, (DWORD) &hook_nothing)
            if (id <= 0)
            {
                writeToLog("Something goes wrong, check returned value");
                return -1;
            }


            id = hookitByName((char*)"HttpOpenRequestA", (char*)"wininet.dll", (DWORD) hook_OpenRequest);
            if (id <= 0) {
                writeToLog("Something goes wrong, check returned value");
                return -2;
            }


            nothing("hook function code");


            break;


        case DLL_PROCESS_DETACH:
            unhookByName((char *) "HttpOpenRequestA", (char*) "wininet.dll");
            unhookByAddress((DWORD) &nothing);
            break;
    }
    return TRUE;
}
}}}
